Problems that remain persistently insoluble should always be suspected as
questions asked in the wrong way., Alan Watts,

You're in my Cartesian boundary!, Garrett Baker,
 
When you are famous it is hard to work on small problems. This is what did Shannon in. After information theory, what do you do for an encore? The great scientists often make this error. They fail to continue to plant the little acorns from which the mighty oak trees grow. They try to get the big thing right off. And that isn't the way things go. So that is another reason why you find that when you get early recognition it seems to sterilize you., Richard Hamming,

Newton said, 'If I have seen further than others, it is because I've stood on the shoulders of giants.' These days we stand on each other's feet!, Richard Hamming,

The applications of knowledge, especially mathematics, reveal the unity of all knowledge. In a new situation almost anything and everything you ever learned might be applicable, and the artificial divisions seem to vanish., Richard Hamming,

If you will only ask yourself, "Is what I am being told really true?," it is amazing how much you can find is, or borders on, being false, even in a well-developed field!, Richard Hamming,

War must be, while we defend our lives against a destroyer who would devour all; but I do not love the bright sword for its sharpness, nor the arrow for its swiftness, nor the warrior for his glory. I love only that which they defend.,J.R.R. Tolkien, The Two Towers

Perhaps one did not want to be loved so much as to be understood., George Orwell, 1984

To see what is in front of one’s nose needs a constant struggle., George Orwell,

We are all capable of believing things which we know to be untrue, and then,
when we are finally proved wrong, impudently twisting the facts so as to show
that we were right., George Orwell,

Defenceless villages are bombarded from the air, the inhabitants driven out
into the countryside, the cattle machine-gunned, the huts set on fire with
incendiary bullets: this is called pacification., George Orwell, Politics and the English Language

No persons are more frequently wrong, than those who will not admit they are
wrong., François de La Rochefoucauld

It is better to offer no excuse than a bad one., George Washington,

Must I argue the wrongfulness of slavery? Is that a question for Republicans? Is it to be settled by the rules of logic and argumentation, as a matter beset with great difficulty, involving a doubtful application of the principle of justice, hard to be understood? How should I look to-day, in the presence of Americans, dividing, and subdividing a discourse, to show that men have a natural right to freedom? Speaking of it relatively, and positively, negatively, and affirmatively. To do so, would be to make myself ridiculous, and to offer an insult to your understanding. There is not a man beneath the canopy of heaven, that does not know that slavery is wrong for him., Frederick Douglass,

The timid and the prudent (as has been intimated) of that day, were, of course, shocked and alarmed by it. Such people lived then, had lived before, and will, probably, ever have a place on this planet; and their course, in respect to any great change, (no matter how great the good to be attained, or the wrong to be redressed by it), may be calculated with as much precision as can be the course of the stars., Frederick Douglass,

Find out just what any people will quietly submit to and you have the exact measure of the injustice and wrong which will be imposed on them., Frederick Douglass,

I believe a leaf of grass is no less than the journey-work of the stars,
And the pismire is equally perfect, and a grain of sand, and the egg of the wren,
And the tree-toad is a chef-d'oeuvre for the highest,
And the running blackberry would adorn the parlors of heaven,
And the narrowest hinge in my hand puts to scorn all machinery,
And the cow crunching with depress'd head surpasses any statue,
And a mouse is miracle enough to stagger sextillions of infidels / Walt
Whitman

Superstition, idolatry, and hypocrisy have ample wages, but truth goes a-begging.,Martin Luther,

If you want to improve, be content to be thought foolish and stupid., Epictetus,

It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat., Theodore Roosevelt,
